# locating-aid

When I looked into AidData's great World Bank IBRD-IDA, Level 1, Version 1.4 data (http://aiddata.org/subnational-geospatial-research-datasets), it turned out that the second administrative level is not always correct (note that this only applys for the projects with a geolocation precision code of 3 or smaller which can be pinned down to the 2nd administrative unit or smaller). Because I want to analyze geographic distribution of projectaid on the second administrative level, I not only need the georeferenced project aid but also the overall number of provinces. AidData does not provide the full list of second administrative units and sometimes there are mistakes. Luckily, AidData provides latitude and longitude for every project, I relied on the Global Administrative Areas Project (GADM) v.2.8 (http://gadm.org/). Despite some problems with the GADM data (see section "known problems" on their website), they provide even data for the third administrative level and on Wikipedia they are praised for their accuracy which surpasses commercial products.
My presented code is doing the following: First, the GADM data is downloaded. GADM provides one big shapefile for all countries in their database but my machine is apparently not strong enough to handle the file. Thus, my code is downloading all files automatically, please be careful with that, so that you do not crash the GADM's server. After that, a loop is determining in which second order administrative area the project is located. 
Disclaimer: I am pretty sure that my code is slow and sloppy (this whole precedure took on my machine somewhat of 4 hours for only a subset of 41 countries). Furthermore, I cannot reference all the pages where I got inspiration from. So: Thank you Internet and all users engaging on stackexchange and other platforms. Without you, I would still click around in SPSS.
